Question:  Summarize and justify alternative scenarios (i.e., compelling stories about the future) ranging from pessimistic to optimistic with regard to market performance of hybrid cars. 

The Electric Fuel Injection is optimistic scenario. This scenario shows that  it took about 14 years for the transition. The hybrid car owner’s demographics lists that they have a high level of education, higher income, eco-friendly etc. which is very much similar to that of the EFI’s. The EFI customers are the ones who has superior technological knowledge and ready to invest more for their cars. So it can be forecasted that the gradual growth of EFIs might happen to the hybrid cars and adopted by the market in near future. The surveys also predict the increase in sales of the hybrid cars. As there is a lot of customer demand there is a regulation passed by CAFE to maintain a minimum mileage of 27.5 miles per gallon (mpg) for passenger cars and 20.7 mpg across light trucks which is also helping to build more cars. The scheme of incentives and tax credits by the government with fuel-efficient and hybrid vehicles are also increasing the demand for hybrid cars. Customers who believe in  “you are what you drive” are preferring cars coming from renewable and non-polluting resources

The Diesel cars is the Pessimistic approach as the customers of diesel car do not have much technical knowledge and will stepback to invest for expensive hybrid cars as they are not concerned with the technology or go-green policy. The environmental problem in disposing the battery which may discourage the customers to buy hybrid cars. The idea of using alternative fuels like E85 may gain the popularity so the customers stepback to pay more and go for hybrid cars. The study shows there is 50% of new car registration in Europe with the diesel cars and may spread worldwide minimizing the growth of hybrid cars.

Anti Breaking System is a Pessimistic approach as the diffusion of product to much time ie 1978 to 1992, and covered a very minimum percentage of cars by 2003.By 2000 it was installed in high end model cars only. It took almost 25 years to reach 69% of the market which is very slow and our forecast is for 10 years so this proves to be an Pessimistic approach. The hybrid cars may not be easily adopted as the traditional source is viewed as convenient and relatively inexpensive among US residents.

